1
A Survey of Large Language Models
Wayne Xin Zhao, Kun Zhou*, Junyi Li*, Tianyi Tang, Xiaolei Wang, Yupeng Hou, Yingqian Min, Beichen
Zhang, Junjie Zhang, Zican Dong, Yifan Du, Chen Y ang, Yushuo Chen, Zhipeng Chen, Jinhao Jiang,
Ruiyang Ren, Yifan Li, Xinyu Tang, Zikang Liu, Peiyu Liu, Jian-Yun Nie and Ji-Rong Wen
Abstract —Ever since the Turing Test was proposed in the 1950s, humans have explored the mastering of language intelligence
by machine. Language is essentially a complex, intricate system of human expressions governed by grammatical rules. It poses a
signiﬁcant challenge to develop capable artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) algorithms for comprehending and grasping a language. As a major
approach, language modeling has been widely studied for language understanding and generation in the past two decades, evolving
from statistical language models to neural language models. Recently, pre-trained language models (PLMs) have been proposed by pre-
training Transformer models over large-scale corpora, showing strong capabilities in solving various natural language processing (NLP)
tasks. Since the researchers have found that model scaling can lead to an improved model capacity, they further investigate the scaling
effect by increasing the parameter scale to an even larger size. Interestingly, when the parameter scale exceeds a certain level, these
enlarged language models not only achieve a signiﬁcant performance improvement, but also exhibit some special abilities ( e.g., in-
context learning) that are not present in small-scale language models ( e.g., BERT). To discriminate the language models in different
parameter scales, the research community has coined the term large language models (LLM) for the PLMs of signiﬁcant size ( e.g.,
containing tens or hundreds of billions of parameters). Recently, the research on LLMs has been largely advanced by both academia
and industry, and a remarkable progress is the launch of ChatGPT (a powerful AI chatbot developed based on LLMs), which has
attracted widespread attention from society. The technical evolution of LLMs has been making an important impact on the entire AI
community, which would revolutionize the way how we develop and use AI algorithms. Considering this rapid technical progress, in this
survey, we review the recent advances of LLMs by introducing the background, key ﬁndings, and mainstream techniques. In particular,
we focus on four major aspects of LLMs, namely pre-training, adaptation tuning, utilization, and capacity evaluation. Besides, we also
summarize the available resources for developing LLMs and discuss the remaining issues for future directions. This survey provides an
up-to-date review of the literature on LLMs, which can be a useful resource for both researchers and engineers.
Index Terms —Large Language Models; Emergent Abilities; Adaptation Tuning; Utilization; Alignment; Capacity Evaluation
F
1 I NTRODUCTION
LANGUAGE is a prominent ability in human beings to
express and communicate, which develops in early
childhood and evolves over a lifetime [1, 2]. Machines,
however, cannot naturally grasp the abilities of understand-
ing and communicating in the form of human language,
unless equipped with powerful artiﬁcial intelligence (AI)
algorithms. It has been a longstanding research challenge
to achieve this goal, to enable machines to read, write, and
communicate like humans [3].
Technically, language modeling (LM) is one of the major
approaches to advancing language intelligence of machines.
In general, LM aims to model the generative likelihood
of word sequences, so as to predict the probabilities of
future (or missing) tokens. The research of LM has received
extensive attention in the literature, which can be divided
into four major development stages:
Statistical language models (SLM) . SLMs [4–7] are de-
veloped based on statistical learning methods that rose in
the 1990s. The basic idea is to build the word prediction
model based on the Markov assumption, e.g., predicting the
next word based on the most recent context. The SLMs with
Version: v10 (update on May 7, 2023).
GitHub link: https://github.com/RUCAIBox/LLMSurvey
* K. Zhou and J. Li contribute equally to this work.
The authors are mainly with Gaoling School of Artiﬁcial Intelligence and
School of Information, Renmin University of China, Beijing, China; Jian-
Yun Nie is with DIRO, Universit´ e de Montr´ eal, Canada.
Contact e-mail: batmanﬂy@gmail.coma ﬁxed context length nare also called n-gram language
models, e.g., bigram and trigram language models. SLMs
have been widely applied to enhance task performance
in information retrieval (IR) [8, 9] and natural language
processing (NLP) [10–12]. However, they often suffer from
the curse of dimensionality: it is difﬁcult to accurately
estimate high-order language models since an exponential
number of transition probabilities need to be estimated.
Thus, specially designed smoothing strategies such as back-
off estimation [13] and Good–Turing estimation [14] have
been introduced to alleviate the data sparsity problem.
Neural language models (NLM) . NLMs [15–17] character-
ize the probability of word sequences by neural networks,
e.g., recurrent neural networks (RNNs). As a remarkable
contribution, the work in [15] introduced the concept of
distributed representation of words and built the word predic-
tion function conditioned on the aggregated context features
(i.e.,the distributed word vectors). By extending the idea
of learning effective features for words or sentences, a
general neural network approach was developed to build
a uniﬁed solution for various NLP tasks [18]. Further,
word2vec [19, 20] was proposed to build a simpliﬁed shal-
low neural network for learning distributed word represen-
tations, which were demonstrated to be very effective across
a variety of NLP tasks. These studies have initiated the
use of language models for representation learning (beyond
word sequence modeling), having an important impact on
the ﬁeld of NLP .arXiv:2303.18223v10  [cs.CL]  7 May 2023

2
Pre-trained language models (PLM) . As an early at-
tempt, ELMo [21] was proposed to capture context-aware
word representations by ﬁrst pre-training a bidirectional
LSTM (biLSTM) network (instead of learning ﬁxed word
representations) and then ﬁne-tuning the biLSTM network
according to speciﬁc downstream tasks. Further, based on
the highly parallelizable Transformer architecture [22] with
self-attention mechanisms, BERT [23] was proposed by pre-
training bidirectional language models with specially de-
signed pre-training tasks on large-scale unlabeled corpora.
These pre-trained context-aware word representations are
very effective as general-purpose semantic features, which
have largely raised the performance bar of NLP tasks. This
study has inspired a large number of follow-up work, which
sets the “ pre-training and ﬁne-tuning ” learning paradigm.
Following this paradigm, a great number of studies on
PLMs have been developed, introducing either different
architectures [24, 25] ( e.g., GPT-2 [26] and BART [24]) or
improved pre-training strategies [27–29]. In this paradigm, it
often requires ﬁne-tuning the PLM for adapting to different
downstream tasks.
Large language models (LLM) . Researchers ﬁnd that
scaling PLM ( e.g., scaling model size or data size) often
leads to an improved model capacity on downstream tasks
(i.e.,following the scaling law [30]). A number of studies
have explored the performance limit by training an ever
larger PLM ( e.g., the 175B-parameter GPT-3 and the 540B-
parameter PaLM). Although scaling is mainly conducted
in model size (with similar architectures and pre-training
tasks), these large-sized PLMs display different behaviors
from smaller PLMs ( e.g., 330M-parameter BERT and 1.5B-
parameter GPT-2) and show surprising abilities (called emer-
gent abilities [31]) in solving a series of complex tasks. For
example, GPT-3 can solve few-shot tasks through in-context
learning , whereas GPT-2 cannot do well. Thus, the research
community coins the term “ large language models (LLM) ”1for
these large-sized PLMs [32–35]. A remarkable application
of LLMs is ChatGPT2that adapts the LLMs from the GPT
series for dialogue, which presents an amazing conversation
ability with humans.
In the existing literature, PLMs have been widely dis-
cussed and surveyed [36–39], while LLMs are seldom re-
viewed in a systematic way. To motivate our survey, we ﬁrst
highlight three major differences between LLMs and PLMs.
First, LLMs display some surprising emergent abilities that
may not be observed in previous smaller PLMs. These abili-
ties are key to the performance of language models on com-
plex tasks, making AI algorithms unprecedently powerful
and effective. Second, LLMs would revolutionize the way
that humans develop and use AI algorithms. Unlike small
PLMs, the major approach to accessing LLMs is through
the prompting interface ( e.g., GPT-4 API). Humans have to
understand how LLMs work and format their tasks in a way
that LLMs can follow. Third, the development of LLMs no
longer draws a clear distinction between research and en-
gineering. The training of LLMs requires extensive practical
experiences in large-scale data processing and distributed
1. Note that a LLM is not necessarily more capable than a small PLM,
and emergent abilities may not occur in some LLMs.
2. https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt/parallel training. To develop capable LLMs, researchers
have to solve complicated engineering issues, working with
engineers or being engineers.
Nowadays, LLMs are posing a signiﬁcant impact on
the AI community, and the advent of ChatGPT and GPT-4
leads to the rethinking of the possibilities of artiﬁcial general
intelligence (AGI). OpenAI has published a technical article
entitled “ Planning for AGI and beyond ”, which discusses
the short-term and long-term plans to approach AGI [40],
and a more recent paper has argued that GPT-4 might be
considered as an early version of an AGI system [41]. The
research areas of AI are being revolutionized by the rapid
progress of LLMs. In the ﬁeld of NLP , LLMs can serve as a
general-purpose language task solver (to some extent), and
the research paradigm has been shifting towards the use
of LLMs. In the ﬁeld of IR, traditional search engines are
challenged by the new information seeking way through AI
chatbots ( i.e.,ChatGPT), and New Bing3presents an initial
attempt that enhances the search results based on LLMs. In
the ﬁeld of CV , the researchers try to develop ChatGPT-like
vision-language models that can better serve multimodal
dialogues [42–45], and GPT-4 [46] has supported multi-
modal input by integrating the visual information. This new
wave of technology would potentially lead to a prosperous
ecosystem of real-world applications based on LLMs. For
instance, Microsoft 365 is being empowered by LLMs ( i.e.,
Copilot) to automate the ofﬁce work, and OpenAI supports
the use of plugins in ChatGPT for implementing special
functions.
Despite the progress and impact, the underlying prin-
ciples of LLMs are still not well explored. Firstly, it is
mysterious why emergent abilities occur in LLMs, instead of
smaller PLMs. As a more general issue, there lacks a deep,
detailed investigation of the key factors that contribute to
the superior abilities of LLMs. It is important to study when
and how LLMs obtain such abilities [47]. Although there are
some meaningful discussions about this problem [31, 47],
more principled investigations are needed to uncover the
“secrets “ of LLMs. Secondly, it is difﬁcult for the research
community to train capable LLMs. Due to the huge de-
mand of computation resources, it is very costly to carry
out repetitive, ablating studies for investigating the effect
of various strategies for training LLMs. Indeed, LLMs are
mainly trained by industry, where many important training
details ( e.g., data collection and cleaning) are not revealed
to the public. Thirdly, it is challenging to align LLMs with
human values or preferences. Despite the capacities, LLMs
are also likely to produce toxic, ﬁctitious, or harmful con-
tents. It requires effective and efﬁcient control approaches
to eliminating the potential risk of the use of LLMs [46].
Faced with both opportunities and challenges, it needs
more attention on the research and development of LLMs.
In order to provide a basic understanding of LLMs, this
survey conducts a literature review of the recent advances
in LLMs from four major aspects, including pre-training
(how to pre-train a capable LLM), adaptation tuning (how to
effectively tune pre-trained LLMs from the two perspectives
of effectiveness and safety), utilization (how to use LLMs
for solving various downstream tasks) and capability eval-
3. https://www.bing.com/new

3
uation (how to evaluate the abilities of LLMs and existing
empirical ﬁndings). We thoroughly comb the literature and
summarize the key ﬁndings, techniques, and methods of
LLMs. For this survey, we also create a GitHub project
website by collecting the supporting resources for LLMs, at
the link https://github.com/RUCAIBox/LLMSurvey. We
are also aware of several related review articles on PLMs
or LLMs [32, 36, 38, 39, 43, 48–54]. These papers either
discuss PLMs or some speciﬁc (or general) aspects of LLMs.
Compared with them, we focus on the techniques and
methods to develop and use LLMs and provide a relatively
comprehensive reference to important aspects of LLMs.
The remainder of this survey is organized as follows:
Section 2 introduces the background for LLMs, with the
terminology, settings, resources, and organization outline,
followed by the summarization of available resources for
developing LLMs in Section 3. Sections 4, 5, 6, and 7 review
and summarize the recent progress from the four aspects
of pre-training, adaptation tuning, utilization, and capacity
evaluation, respectively. Finally, we conclude the survey in
Section 8 by summarizing the major ﬁndings and discuss
the remaining issues for future work.
2 O VERVIEW
In this section, we present an overview about the back-
ground of LLMs and then summarize the technical evolu-
tion of the GPT-series models.
2.1 Background for LLMs
Typically, large language models (LLMs) refer to Transformer
language models that contain hundreds of billions (or
more) of parameters4, which are trained on massive text
data [32], such as GPT-3 [55], PaLM [56], Galactica [35],
and LLaMA [57]. LLMs exhibit strong capacities to un-
derstand natural language and solve complex tasks (via
text generation). To have a quick understanding of how
LLMs work, this part introduces the basic background for
LLMs, including scaling laws, emergent abilities and key
techniques.
Scaling Laws for LLMs . Currently, LLMs are mainly built
upon the Transformer architecture [22], where multi-head
attention layers are stacked in a very deep neural network.
Existing LLMs adopt similar Transformer architectures and
pre-training objectives ( e.g., language modeling) as small
language models. While, LLMs largely scale the model size,
data size, and total compute (orders of magniﬁcation). Ex-
tensive research has shown that scaling can largely improve
the model capacity of LLMs [26, 55, 56]. Thus, it is useful
to establish a quantitative approach to characterizing the
scaling effect. Next, we introduce two representative scaling
laws for Transformer language models [30, 34].
KM scaling law5. In 2020, Kaplan et al. [30] (the OpenAI
team) ﬁrstly proposed to model the power-law relationship
4. In existing literature, there is no formal consensus on the minimum
parameter scale for LLMs, since the model capacity is also related to
data size and total compute. In this survey, we take a slightly loose
deﬁnition of LLMs, and mainly focus on discussing language models
with a model size larger than 10B.
5. Since there was not a model trained following this law in the
original paper, we took the last names of the two co-ﬁrst authors to
name this scaling law.of model performance with respective to three major factors,
namely model size ( N), dataset size ( D), and the amount of
training compute ( C), for neural language models. Given
a compute budget c, they empirically presented three basic
formulas for the scaling law6:
L(N) =Nc
NN
; N0:076;Nc8:81013(1)
L(D) =Dc
DD
; D0:095;Dc5:41013
L(C) =Cc
CC
; C0:050;Cc3:1108
whereL()denotes the cross entropy loss in nats. The three
laws were derived by ﬁtting the model performance with
varied data sizes (22M to 23B tokens), model sizes (768M
to 1.5B non-embedding parameters) and training compute,
under some assumptions ( e.g., the analysis of one factor
should be not bottlenecked by the other two factors). They
showed that the model performance has a strong depen-
dence relation on the three factors.
Chinchilla scaling law . As another representative study,
Hoffmann et al. [34] (the Google DeepMind team) proposed
an alternative form for scaling laws to instruct the compute-
optimal training for LLMs. They conducted rigorous exper-
iments by varying a larger range of model sizes (70M to
16B) and data sizes (5B to 500B tokens), and ﬁtted a similar
scaling law yet with different coefﬁcients as below [34]:
L(N;D ) =E+A
N+B
D; (2)
whereE= 1:69;A= 406:4;B= 410:7,= 0:34and
= 0:28. By optimizing the loss L(N;D )under the con-
straintC6ND, they showed that the optimal allocation
of compute budget to model size and data size can be
derived as follows:
Nopt(C) =GC
6a
; Dopt(C) =G 1C
6b
; (3)
wherea=
+,b=
+andGis a scaling coefﬁcient that
can be computed by A,B,and. As analyzed in [34],
given an increase in compute budget, the KM scaling law
favors a larger budget allocation in model size than the data
size, while the Chinchilla scaling law argues that the two
sizes should be increased in equal scales, i.e.,having similar
values foraandbin Equation (3).
Though with some restricted assumptions, these scaling
laws provide an intuitive understanding of the scaling ef-
fect, making it feasible to predict the performance of LLMs
during training [46]. However, some abilities ( e.g.,in-context
learning [55]) are unpredictable according to the scaling law,
which can be observed only when the model size exceeds a
certain level (as discussed below).
6. Here,Nc,DcandCcare measured in the number of non-
embedding parameters, the number of training tokens and the number
of FP-days, respectively. According to the original paper [30], CcandC
should be denoted by Cmin
c andCmin, corresponding to the optimal
use of compute. While, we use the simpliﬁed notations for ease of
discussions.

4
Emergent Abilities of LLMs . In the literature [31], emergent
abilities of LLMs are formally deﬁned as “the abilities that
are not present in small models but arise in large models”,
which is one of the most prominent features that distin-
guish LLMs from previous PLMs. It further introduces a
notable characteristic when emergent abilities occur [31]:
performance rises signiﬁcantly above random when the
scale reaches a certain level. By analogy, such an emergent
pattern has close connections with the phenomenon of phase
transition in physics [31, 58]. In principle, emergent abilities
can be deﬁned in relation to some complex tasks [31, 59],
while we are more concerned with general abilities that
can be applied to solve a variety of tasks. Here, we brieﬂy
introduce three typical emergent abilities for LLMs and
representative models that possess such an ability7.
In-context learning. The in-context learning (ICL) abil-
ity is formally introduced by GPT-3 [55]: assuming that
the language model has been provided with a natural
language instruction and/or several task demonstrations,
it can generate the expected output for the test instances
by completing the word sequence of input text, without
requiring additional training or gradient update8. Among
the GPT-series models, the 175B GPT-3 model exhibited
a strong ICL ability in general, but not the GPT-1 and
GPT-2 models. While, such an ability also depends on the
speciﬁc downstream task. For example, the ICL ability can
emerge on the arithmetic tasks ( e.g., the 3-digit addition and
subtraction) for the 13B GPT-3, but 175B GPT-3 even cannot
work well on the Persian QA task [31].
Instruction following. By ﬁne-tuning with a mixture of
multi-task datasets formatted via natural language descrip-
tions (called instruction tuning ), LLMs are shown to perform
well on unseen tasks that are also described in the form
of instructions [28, 61, 62]. With instruction tuning, LLMs
are enabled to follow the task instructions for new tasks
without using explicit examples, thus having an improved
generalization ability. According to the experiments in [62],
instruction-tuned LaMDA-PT [63] started to signiﬁcantly
outperform the untuned one on unseen tasks when the
model size reached 68B, but not for 8B or smaller model
sizes. A recent study [64] found that a model size of 62B is
at least required for PaLM to perform well on various tasks
in four evaluation benchmarks ( i.e.,MMLU, BBH, TyDiQA
and MGSM), though a much smaller size might sufﬁce for
some speciﬁc tasks ( e.g., MMLU).
Step-by-step reasoning. For small language models, it is
usually difﬁcult to solve complex tasks that involve multiple
reasoning steps, e.g., mathematical word problems. While,
with the chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting strategy [33],
LLMs can solve such tasks by utilizing the prompting
mechanism that involves intermediate reasoning steps for
deriving the ﬁnal answer. This ability is speculated to be
potentially obtained by training on code [33, 47]. An empir-
ical study [33] has shown that CoT prompting can bring
7. It is difﬁcult to accurately examine the critical size for emergent
abilities of LLMs ( i.e.,the minimum size to possess an ability), since it
might vary for different models or tasks. Besides, existing studies often
test emergent abilities on very limited model sizes for a speciﬁc LLM.
For example, PaLM is often tested with three sizes of 8B, 62B and 540B.
It is unclear about the model performance of the untested sizes.
8. In a recent study [60], it also shows that in-context learning implic-
itly performs meta-optimization through the attention mechanism.performance gains (on arithmetic reasoning benchmarks)
when applied to PaLM and LaMDA variants with a model
size larger than 60B, while its advantage over the standard
prompting becomes more evident when the model size
exceeds 100B. Besides, the performance improvement with
CoT prompting seems to be also varied for different tasks,
e.g., GSM8K>MAWPS>SWAMP for PaLM [33].
Key Techniques for LLMs . It has been a long way that
LLMs evolve into the current state: general and capable
learners. In the development process, a number of impor-
tant techniques are proposed, which largely improve the
capacity of LLMs. Here, we brieﬂy list several important
techniques that (potentially) lead to the success of LLMs, as
follows.
Scaling . As discussed in previous parts, there exists
an evident scaling effect in Transformer language mod-
els: larger model/data sizes and more training compute
typically lead to an improved model capacity [30, 34]. As
two representative models, GPT-3 and PaLM explored the
scaling limits by increasing the model size to 175B and
540B, respectively. Furthermore, since compute budget is
usually limited, scaling laws can be employed to conduct a
more compute-efﬁcient allocation of the compute resources.
For example, Chinchilla (with more training tokens) outper-
forms its counterpart model Gopher (with a larger model
size) by increasing the data scale with the same compute
budget [34]. While, it should be noted that data scaling
should be with careful cleaning process, since the quality
of pre-training data plays a key role in the model capacity.
Training . Due to the huge model size, it is very chal-
lenging to successfully train a capable LLM. Distributed
training algorithms are needed to learn the network param-
eters of LLMs, in which various parallel strategies are often
jointly utilized. To support distributed training, several opti-
mization frameworks have been released to facilitate the im-
plementation and deployment of parallel algorithms, such
as DeepSpeed [65] and Megatron-LM [66–68]. Besides, opti-
mization tricks are also important for training stability and
model performance, e.g., restart to overcome training loss
spike [56] and mixed precision training [69]. More recently,
GPT-4 [46] proposes to develop special infrastructure and
optimization methods that reliably predict the performance
of large models with much smaller models.
Ability eliciting . After being pre-trained on large-scale
corpora, LLMs are endowed with potential abilities as
general-purpose task solvers. While, these abilities might
not be explicitly exhibited when LLMs perform some spe-
ciﬁc tasks. As the technical approach, it is useful to de-
sign suitable task instructions or speciﬁc in-context learn-
ing strategies to elicit such abilities. For instance, chain-
of-thought prompting has been shown to be useful to
solve complex reasoning tasks by including intermediate
reasoning steps. Besides, we can further perform instruction
tuning on LLMs with task descriptions expressed in natural
language, for improving the generalizability of LLMs on
unseen tasks. While, these techniques mainly correspond to
the emergent abilities of LLMs, which may not show the
same effect on small language models.
Alignment tuning . Since LLMs are trained to capture
the data characteristics of pre-training corpora (including

5
both high-quality and low-quality data), they are likely to
generate toxic, biased, or even harmful content for humans.
It is necessary to align LLMs with human values, e.g., helpful ,
honest , and harmless . For this purpose, InstructGPT [61]
designs an effective tuning approach that enables LLMs to
follow the expected instructions, which utilizes the tech-
nique of reinforcement learning with human feedback [61, 70].
It incorporates human in the training loop with elaborately
designed labeling strategies. ChatGPT is indeed developed
on a similar technique to InstructGPT, which shows a strong
alignment capacity in producing high-quality, harmless re-
sponses, e.g., rejecting to answer insulting questions.
Tools manipulation . In essence, LLMs are trained as text
generators over massive plain text corpora, thus performing
less well on the tasks that are not best expressed in the
form of text ( e.g., numerical computation). Besides, their
capacities are also limited to the pre-training data, e.g., the
inability to capture up-to-date information. To tackle these
issues, a recently proposed technique is to employ external
tools to compensate for the deﬁciencies of LLMs [71, 72].
For example, LLMs can utilize the calculator for accurate
computation [71] and employ search engines to retrieve
unknown information [72]. More recently, ChatGPT has
enabled the mechanism of using external plugins (existing
or newly created apps)9, which are by analogy with the “ eyes
and ears ” of LLMs. Such a mechanism can broadly expand
the scope of capacities for LLMs.
Besides, many other factors ( e.g., the upgrade of hard-
ware) also contribute to the success of LLMs. While, we
limit our discussion to the major technical approaches and
key ﬁndings for developing LLMs.
2.2 Technical Evolution of GPT-series Models
Due to the excellent capacity in communicating with hu-
mans, ChatGPT has ignited the excitement of the AI com-
munity since its release. ChatGPT is developed based on the
powerful GPT model with specially optimized conversation
capacities. Considering the ever-growing interest in Chat-
GPT and GPT models, we add a special discussion about
the technical evolution of the GPT-series models, to brieﬂy
summarize the progress how they have been developed in
the past years. Overall, the research of OpenAI on LLMs can
be roughly divided into the following stages10.
Early Explorations . According to one interview with Ilya
Sutskever11(a co-founder and chief scientist of OpenAI),
the idea of approaching intelligent systems with language
models was already explored in the early days of Ope-
nAI, while it was attempted with recurrent neural net-
works (RNN) [104]. With the advent of Transformer, OpenAI
developed two initial GPT models, namely GPT-1 [105] and
GPT-2 [26], which can considered as the foundation to more
powerful models subsequently i.e.,GPT-3 and GPT-4.
9. https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt-plugins
10. Note that the discussion of this part can be somewhat subjective.
The overall viewpoints and summaries are made based on the under-
standing of the authors by surveying the papers, blog articles, interview
reports and APIs released by OpenAI.
11. https://hackernoon.com/an-interview-with-ilya-sutskever-co-
founder-of-openaiGPT-1 . In 2017, the Transformer model [22] was intro-
duced by Google, and the OpenAI team quickly adapted
their language modeling work to this new neural network
architecture. They released the ﬁrst GPT model in 2018,
i.e., GPT-1 [105], and coined the abbreviation term GPT
as the model name, standing for Generative Pre-Training .
GPT-1 was developed based on a generative, decoder-only
Transformer architecture, and adopted a hybrid approach of
unsupervised pretraining and supervised ﬁne-tuning. GPT-
1 has set up the core architecture for the GPT-series models
and established the underlying principle to model natural
language text, i.e.,predicting the next word.
GPT-2 . Following a similar architecture of GPT-1,
GPT-2 [26] increased the parameter scale to 1.5B, which
was trained with a large webpage dataset WebText. As
claimed in the paper of GPT-2, it sought to perform
tasks via unsupervised language modeling, without explicit
ﬁne-tuning using labeled data. To motivate the approach,
they introduced a probabilistic form for multi-task solving,
i.e.,p(outputjinput;task )(similar approaches have been
adopted in [106]), which predicts the output conditioned on
the input and task information. To model this conditional
probability, language text can be naturally employed as a
uniﬁed way to format input, output and task information.
In this way, the process of solving a task can be cast as a
word prediction problem for generating the solution text.
Further, they introduced a more formal claim for this idea:
“Since the (task-speciﬁc) supervised objective is the same
as the unsupervised (language modeling) objective but only
evaluated on a subset of the sequence, the global minimum
of the unsupervised objective is also the global minimum
of the supervised objective (for various tasks)” [26]12. A
basic understanding of this claim is that each (NLP) task
can be considered as the word prediction problem based
on a subset of the world text. Thus, unsupervised language
modeling could be capable in solving various tasks, if it was
trained to have sufﬁcient capacity in recovering the world
text. These early discussion in GPT-2’s paper echoed in the
interview of Ilya Sutskever by Jensen Huang: “What the
neural network learns is some representation of the process
that produced the text. This text is actually a projection of
the world...the more accurate you are in predicting the next
word, the higher the ﬁdelity, the more resolution you get in
this process...”13.
Capacity Leap . Although GPT-2 is intended to be an “un-
supervised multitask learner”, it overall has an inferior
performance compared with supervised ﬁne-tuning state-
of-the-art methods. While, it has a relatively small model
size, it has widely ﬁne-tuned in downstream tasks, espe-
cially the dialog tasks [107, 108]. Based on GPT-2, GPT-3
demonstrates a key capacity leap by scaling of the (nearly
same) generative pre-training architecture.
GPT-3 . GPT-3 [55] was released in 2020, which scaled
the model parameters to an ever larger size of 175B. In
the GPT-3’s paper, it formally introduced the concept of
12. To better understand this sentence, we put some explanation
words in parentheses.
13. https://lifearchitect.ai/ilya/

6
2020
20232021
1-4
5-8
9-10
1-3
4-6
7-10
1 1-12
T5
GPT -3
WebGPT
BLOOMZ
GalaticamT0LLaMA
2019
FLAN
InstructGPT
GPT -NeoX-20BCodeGen
OPT
OPT -IML
MT-NLGT0
Tk-Instruct
1-4
GPT -4
GShard
UL2
PaLM Flan-T5
Flan-PaLMSparr ow
ChatGPT
Ernie 3.0 T itan
Yuan 1.0
PanGu-Σ
Gopher
GLaMmT5
 PanGu- 𝛂
PLUG
BardLaMDA
CPM-2
HyperCLOV APublicly A vailable
CodexJurassic-1
Ernie 3.0
Anthr opic
NLLBCoher ePythia
Vicuna
LuminousYaLM1 1-12
2022
GLM
AlexaTMBLOOM
WeLM
AlphaCode
Chinchilla
CodeGeeX
Fig. 1. A timeline of existing large language models (having a size larger than 10B) in recent years. The timeline was established mainly according
to the release date ( e.g., the submission date to arXiv) of the technical paper for a model. If there was not a corresponding paper, we set the date
of a model as the earliest time of its public release or announcement. We mark the LLMs with publicly available model checkpoints in yellow color.
Due to the space limit of the ﬁgure, we only include the LLMs with publicly reported evaluation results.
in-context learning (ICL)14, which utilizes LLMs in a few-
shot or zero-shot way. ICL can teach (or instruct) LLMs to
understand the tasks in the form of natural language text.
With ICL, the pre-training and utilization of LLMs converge
to the same language modeling paradigm: pre-training pre-
dicts the following text sequence conditioned on the context,
while ICL predicts the correct task solution, which can be
also formatted as a text sequence, given the task description
and demonstrations. GPT-3 not only demonstrates very ex-
cellent performance in a variety of NLP tasks, but also on a
number of specially designed tasks that require the abilities
of reasoning or domain adaptation. Although the GPT-3’s
paper does not explicitly discuss the emergent abilities of
LLMs, we can observe large performance leap that might
transcend the basic scaling law [30], e.g., larger models have
signiﬁcantly stronger ICL ability (illustrated in the original
Figure 1.2 of the GPT-3’s paper [55]). Overall, GPT-3 can be
viewed as a remarkable landmark in the journey evolving
from PLMs to LLMs. It has empirically proved that scaling
the neural networks to a signiﬁcant size can lead to a huge
increase in model capacity.
Capacity Enhancement . Due to the strong capacities, GPT-
3 has been the base model to develop even more capable
LLMs for OpenAI. Overall, OpenAI has explored two major
approaches to further improving the GPT-3 model, i.e.,train-
ing on code data and alignment with human preference,
which are detailed as follows.
Training on code data . A major limitation of the original
14. GPT-2 essentially used ICL for unsupervised task learning,
though it wasn’t called ICL at that time.GPT-3 model (pre-trained on plain text) lies in the lack of
the reasoning ability on complex tasks, e.g., completing the
code and solving math problems. To enhance this ability,
Codex [89] was introduced by OpenAI in July 2021, which
was a GPT model ﬁne-tuned on a large corpus of GitHub
code. It demonstrated that Codex can solve very difﬁcult
programming problems, and also lead to a signiﬁcant per-
formance improvement in solving math problems [109]. Fur-
ther, a contrastive approach [110] to training text and code
embedding was reported in January 2022, which was shown
to improve a series of related tasks ( i.e.,linear-probe classi-
ﬁcation, text search and code search). Actually, the GPT-3.5
models are developed based on a code-based GPT model
(i.e.,code-davinci-002 ), which indicates that training on
code data is a very useful practice to improve the model
capacity of GPT models, especially the reasoning ability.
Besides, there is also a speculation that training on code data
can greatly increase the chain-of-thought prompting abilities
of LLMs [47], while it is still worth further investigation with
more thorough veriﬁcation.
Human alignment . The related research of human
alignment can be dated back to the year 2017 (or earlier)
for OpenAI: a blog article entitled “learning from human
preferences”15was posted on the OpenAI blog describing
a work that applied reinforcement learning (RL) to learn
from the preference comparisons annotated by humans [70]
(similar to the reward training step in the aligning algorithm
of InstructGPT in Figure 6). Shortly after the release of this
RL paper [70], the paper of the Proximal Policy Optimiza-
15. https://openai.com/research/learning-from-human-preferences